README.md, before:

# Golang HTMX Tailwind Alpine Starter

## Overview

This project is a starter template for a web application built with Go. It includes Echo for web routing, Tailwind CSS for styling, Templ for HTML templating, SQLC for SQL code generation, and Golang-Migrate for database migrations. It also uses Air for live reloading in development.

## Project Structure

```bash
.
├── Makefile                # Makefile to manage build tasks and development commands
├── README.md               # Project documentation
├── air.toml                # Configuration file for Air live reloading
├── bun.lockb               # Bun lock file for dependency management (if using Bun)
├── go.mod                  # Go module file, listing project dependencies
├── go.sum                  # Go checksum file, ensuring the integrity of dependencies
├── handlers
│   ├── home.go             # HTTP handler for the home route
│   └── shared.go           # Shared HTTP handlers or middleware
├── infrastructure
│   └── postgres
│       └── migrations      # Database migration files for Golang-Migrate
├── internals               # Internal application logic and domain-specific code
├── main.go                 # Main application entry point
├── package.json            # Node.js package file for managing JavaScript dependencies
├── public
│   └── global.css          # Global CSS file for styling
├── sqlc.yaml               # Configuration file for SQLC code generation
├── static_dev.go           # Development-specific static file handling
├── static_prod.go          # Production-specific static file handling
├── tailwind.config.js      # Configuration file for Tailwind CSS
├── tmp
│   ├── build-errors.log    # Log file for build errors
│   └── main                # Temporary build artifacts directory
├── tools.go                # Go file to track development tools as dependencies
└── views
    ├── components
    │   ├── navigation.templ     # Templ template for navigation component
    │   └── navigation_templ.go  # Go file for navigation component logic
    ├── css
    │   └── global.css           # CSS file for styling the application
    ├── home
    │   ├── index.templ          # Templ template for the home page
    │   └── index_templ.go       # Go file for home page logic
    └── layouts
        ├── base.templ           # Templ template for the base layout
        └── base_templ.go        # Go file for base layout logic
```

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

    •	Go 1.16 or later
    •	Node.js and npm
    •	Air (for live reloading in development)
    •	Templ (for HTML templating)
    •	Tailwind CSS (for styling)
    •	SQLC (for SQL code generation)
    •	Golang-Migrate (for database migrations)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/yourprojectname.git
cd yourprojectname
```

2. Install go dependencies

```bash
go mod tidy
go install
# Note: if go install does not install every thing from tools.go you will have to install templ, sqlc and golang-migrate manually
```

```bash
go install github.com/a-h/templ/cmd/templ@latest
go install github.com/sqlc-dev/sqlc/cmd/sqlc@latest
go install -tags 'postgres' github.com/golang-migrate/migrate/v4/cmd/migrate@latest
```

To get started clone this template and run

```bash
yarn install
# or
npm install
# or
bun install
```

### Configuration

1. Create a .env file for your environment variables.

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

2. Update the .env file with your configuration settings.

### Usage

Development

1. Run the application with Air for live reloading

```bash
make air
```

This will run the application in development mode with live reloading using Air, Templ, and Tailwind CSS.

2. If you only generate templates with Templ and Proxy

```bash
make templ
```

3. Watch and compile CSS with Tailwind CSS

```bash
make css
```

### Production

1. Build the application for production

```bash
make build
```

2. Run the production build

```bash
make run
```

### Running Migrations

First you need to write sql native queries in query folder inside `infrastructure/postgres/query`. To run database migrations, use Golang-Migrate with the following command:

```bash
migrate -database postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/dbname?sslmode=disable -path ./infrastructure/postgres/migrations up
```

you will need to compile css for the first time to include it in the binary

```
make css
```

# Migrations

For migrations make sure you have golang-migrate installed

```
migrate -path repo/migrations -database "postgresql://root:secret@localhost:5432/postgres?sslmode=disable" -verbose up
```

# To start development server

You can access client at port :7331 and backend at :1323

```
make air
```

# To run prod

```
make run
```

credits:

The base structure is inspired by Anthony's video so big shoutout, please do visit his channel https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1dqp1s72Z8E

Commit message:

add ts module support, vite integration and modify makefile script

README.md, after:

# Golang HTMX Tailwind Alpine Starter

## Overview

This project is a starter template for a web application built with Go. It includes Echo for web routing, Tailwind CSS for styling, Templ for HTML templating, SQLC for SQL code generation, and Golang-Migrate for database migrations. It also uses Air for live reloading in development.

## Project Structure

```bash
.
├── Makefile                # Makefile to manage build tasks and development commands
├── README.md               # Project documentation
├── air.toml                # Configuration file for Air live reloading
├── bun.lockb               # Bun lock file for dependency management (if using Bun)
├── go.mod                  # Go module file, listing project dependencies
├── go.sum                  # Go checksum file, ensuring the integrity of dependencies
├── handlers
│   ├── home.go             # HTTP handler for the home route
│   └── shared.go           # Shared HTTP handlers or middleware
├── infrastructure
│   └── postgres
│       └── migrations      # Database migration files for Golang-Migrate
├── internals               # Internal application logic and domain-specific code
├── main.go                 # Main application entry point
├── package.json            # Node.js package file for managing JavaScript dependencies
├── public
│   └── global.css          # Global CSS file for styling
├── sqlc.yaml               # Configuration file for SQLC code generation
├── static_dev.go           # Development-specific static file handling
├── static_prod.go          # Production-specific static file handling
├── tailwind.config.js      # Configuration file for Tailwind CSS
├── tmp
│   ├── build-errors.log    # Log file for build errors
│   └── main                # Temporary build artifacts directory
├── tools.go                # Go file to track development tools as dependencies
└── views
    ├── components
    │   ├── navigation.templ     # Templ template for navigation component
    │   └── navigation_templ.go  # Go file for navigation component logic
    ├── css
    │   └── global.css           # CSS file for styling the application
    ├── home
    │   ├── index.templ          # Templ template for the home page
    │   └── index_templ.go       # Go file for home page logic
    └── layouts
        ├── base.templ           # Templ template for the base layout
        └── base_templ.go        # Go file for base layout logic
```

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

    •	Go 1.16 or later
    •	Node.js and npm
    •	Air (for live reloading in development)
    •	Templ (for HTML templating)
    •	Tailwind CSS (for styling)
    •	SQLC (for SQL code generation)
    •	Golang-Migrate (for database migrations)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/yourprojectname.git
cd yourprojectname
```

2. Install go dependencies

```bash
go mod tidy
go install
# Note: if go install does not install every thing from tools.go you will have to install templ, sqlc and golang-migrate manually
```

```bash
go install github.com/a-h/templ/cmd/templ@latest
go install github.com/sqlc-dev/sqlc/cmd/sqlc@latest
go install -tags 'postgres' github.com/golang-migrate/migrate/v4/cmd/migrate@latest
```

To get started clone this template and run

```bash
yarn install
# or
npm install
# or
bun install
```

### Configuration

1. Create a .env file for your environment variables.

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

2. Update the .env file with your configuration settings.

### Usage

Development

1. Run the application with Air for live reloading

```bash
make air
```

This will run the application in development mode with live reloading using Air, Templ, and Tailwind CSS.

2. If you only generate templates with Templ and Proxy

```bash
make templ
```

3. Watch and compile CSS with Tailwind CSS

```bash
make css
```

### vite modules

```bash
make vite
```

We have bundled js for module support and partial rendering and loading js files via vite

```html
<div id="output" data-module="module"></div>
```

We use data-module attribute to tell that particular page or element to notify us that we need to load that particular js file
this gives us more performance and we can directly install and use npm packages directly on to our templ files.

### Production

1. Build the application for production

```bash
make build
```

2. Run the production build

```bash
make run
```

### Running Migrations

First you need to write sql native queries in query folder inside `infrastructure/postgres/query`. To run database migrations, use Golang-Migrate with the following command:

```bash
migrate -database postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/dbname?sslmode=disable -path ./infrastructure/postgres/migrations up
```

you will need to compile css for the first time to include it in the binary

```
make css
```

# Migrations

For migrations make sure you have golang-migrate installed

```
migrate -path repo/migrations -database "postgresql://root:secret@localhost:5432/postgres?sslmode=disable" -verbose up
```

# To start development server

You can access client at port :7331 and backend at :1323

```
make air
```

# To run prod

```
make run
```

credits:

The base structure is inspired by Anthony's video so big shoutout, please do visit his channel https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1dqp1s72Z8E
